draft multiverse post (#1169)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2025-10-21-ship-multiverse/index.md

---
title: Go for Launch! Packages Shipped to the Multiverse
author: 
- Maëlle Salmon
editor:

>   - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Steffi LaZerte
```

date: '2025-10-21'

> slug: packages-multiverse

Author: no

> description: Packages submitted to the R multiverse during our recent coworking session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Packages submitted to the R-multiverse during our recent coworking session.
```

output: hugodown::md_document
tags:
  - r-multiverse
  - r-universe
params:
  doi: "10.59350/pjqfq-q2q45"
---

Will Landau recently introduced the R-multiverse, [a new way to publish R packages](/commcalls/r-multiverse/), during an rOpenSci community call.[^posit]
After that event, a [coworking](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/) session allowed even more discussion between Will, his R-multiverse fellow administrators Jeroen Ooms and Maëlle Salmon, and community members.

A key mission in that coworking session was to submit packages to the multiverse live!
Following the [instructions](https://r-multiverse.org/contributors.html), any package maintainer wishing to send their software to the community repository needs to:

- create a GitHub or GitLab release of their package;
- open a Pull Request to the [contributions](https://github.com/r-multiverse/contributions) GitHub repository, adding a text file that contains the URL to the repository.[^json]

> Will also showed an R function that allows to perform local checks on the package before submitting: [`multiverse.internals::review_package()`](https://r-multiverse.org/multiverse.internals/reference/review_package.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Will also shared an R function that allows you to perform R-multiverse package checks locally before submitting: [`multiverse.internals::review_package()`](https://r-multiverse.org/multiverse.internals/reference/review_package.html).
```

Three packages were submitted during the coworking session!

## Package submissions

### riem, to get weather data from ASOS stations (airports) via the Iowa Environment Mesonet.

I submitted my [riem package](https://github.com/r-multiverse/contributions/pull/238) that accesses airport weather data, even if it is also distributed on CRAN.
Because the automatic checks (of the license for instance) passed and because I am a public member of an organization trusted by the multiverse, ropensci, my PR was automatically merged. 

Read more about [riem](https://docs.ropensci.org/riem/).

### geotargets, that extends targets to work with geospatial data formats

Eric R. Scott submitted [geotargets package](https://github.com/r-multiverse/contributions/pull/239) that extends targets to work with geospatial data formats, such as rasters and vectors (e.g., shapefiles).
Eric co-authored `geotargets` alongside Nick Tierney and Andrew Brown, but Nick is the primary maintainer.
That's perfectly okay.

> In fact, R-multiverse lets you contribute packages you didn't write at all, as long as the license grants [clear permission to distribute and modify the code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it's perfectly okay that Eric submitted the package rather than Nick.
In fact, R-multiverse lets you contribute packages you didn't write at all[^3], as long as the license grants [clear permission to distribute and modify the code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software).
```

Read more about [geotargets](https://docs.ropensci.org/geotargets/).

> ### weathercan, to search for and download multiple months/years of historical weather data from Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^3]: Package authorship stays the same.

### weathercan, to find and download historical weather data from Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC)
```
